---
layout: post
title: Unveiling The Normalized Cycling League
subtitle: Elevate Your Cycling Experience
cover-img: /assets/img/path5.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/trophy.png
share-img: /assets/img/path5.png
tags: [info]
---
# A New Perspective on Cycling Performance

Hello cycling enthusiasts, adventurers, and those of us who simply can't resist the allure of the open road and the thrill of the ride. I am excited to pull back the curtain on a new concept that I believe will gamify the way you track, understand, and appreciate your cycling performance. Introducing the **Normalized Cycling League (NCL)**, an advanced tool designed to enrich your ride experiences by providing an enhanced view of your performance.

## Why?
I developed the NCL with the aim of establishing a space where hobbyist cyclists, including myself, could engage in competitive activities and assess their performance without having to rely on costly subscription-based platforms like Strava. These platforms often lack standardized data, thereby making it challenging to accurately compare one's performance with that of other cyclists who may have different riding environments. Through the NCL, cyclists are able to record and input their ride data, which is then normalized to ensure a fair and comparable ranking system. The focus is on creating an equitable platform that encourages friendly competition among cyclists, free from the financial burden of expensive subscriptions.

## What is the Normalized Cycling League (NCL) all about?
The NCL is not a typical performance tracker. It's an innovative tool that takes your regular ride data and turns it into a holistic performance indicator (NCL Value) that allows you to rank your rides in a whole new way.

You'll be able to input your ride details - e.g. distance, elevation, and time - into the NCL tool. What makes it unique? The advanced algorithm normalizes this data and places your performance in a league table. This gives you a fresh perspective on how your rides compare to others, regardless of the terrain or distance.

Why is this important? Well, the goal isn't merely to track your progress. The NCL is designed to deepen your understanding of your performance. It lets you appreciate the intricacies of your rides and highlights how even the smallest changes can influence your ranking. Plus, it stirs up a bit of friendly competition, encouraging you to strive for improvement while soaking in the joy of your cycling journey.

## Breaking Down the NCL Metrics
To fully embrace the NCL, it's essential to get a grip on some of the key metrics and what they represent:

**- NCL Value:** This is a comprehensive measure of your overall effort that considers factors like distance, elevation gained, time and speed. It uses a weighted average approach to give a single value representing the overall effort of your biking activity.

**- nDistance:** This represents the overall effort required for your biking activity, factoring in both the distance and total elevation gained.

**- nSpeed:** A normalized measure of your average speed during a biking activity, considering both the actual distance covered and time taken to provide a standardized speed value.

**- nPWR:** This represents the normalized power output during a biking activity, which is calculated by multiplying your cycling capability (watts per kilogram) by the combined weight of the bike and rider.

**- W/kg:** Watts per kilogram is a measure of power output per unit weight of the cyclist, used in cycling to compare the relative power output of different riders.

## Ready to Ride with the NCL?
So, gear up, hit the road, and dive into the world of cycling with the NCL. Submit your rides, keep an eye on your ranking in the league standings, and discover how every ride counts in its unique way.

Remember, it's not just about winning, it's about understanding and appreciating your individual performance. Enjoy your ride and let the NCL enhance your cycling experience. Can't wait to see you out there! Happy cycling!

*BTW: You even can participate in the league if you are a purely indoor cycler!*
